Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to have a look at proxies which is a way when you've linked to file that
were able to edit some of the properties of the original data block that we've moved across.
Now there are some rules to this you can only have one copy copier linked data in any one blend file
if you try and bring it in again.
It just won't allow you to bring it in again it will just re reference the original link that can be
incredibly useful in animation it can allow you to bring complex rigs in as a proxy.
But with some of the more complex bones hidden from the animator which is incredibly useful if you don't
want them pulling on levers they shouldn't be pulling on it will be superseded by library overrides
which we'll talk about in the next lecture.
Changes are restricted unless you start making some data blocks local and we'll talk about making things
local a after we've talked about library overrides says hop on over into blender and start talking and
showing you guys about proxies everybody welcome back over in splendor.
So let's start by talking about making something a proxy.
So we've got on board in our scene here.
If we go up to the object menu and go down to relations we have a series of options that we can use
and make proxies the top one here.
Let's go ahead and click that and make proxy.
Notice here that it's moved its position in the world as well.
If you zoomed in you might even think it disappeared and let's have a look over in the outline.
So we've got a cube to link proxy that's interesting as in it and we've lost the modifier that was on
its as well.
So that's useful to realize that we've lost that.
And look we've still got our original one there as well.
But now when we try and move it.
Oh it snapped back down here interesting quirk there.
That might be a bug but here we go our cube to link it's now still there and we can hide it away our
cubes link proxy.
Now this is interesting we can start to move this to other locations.
We can rotate it and we can also scale it.
It's a shame that it's lost its modifiers that we had on there.
Now there's no reason why we can't go ahead and re add a modifier.
That's one thing we can do if we want the specific modifiable let's say we can link that data block
file link or currently in the object properties by the looks of it.
Is this such a thing as modifiers.
Doesn't seem to be so modifiers those data don't come across.
So how do we inherit what the other one had.
Well again linking things together whilst we're on the theme of linking we can select our cube here
shift and select our sphere control an el we can make links.
So here we can make links to modifiers and then we go we can inherit that modify we we can also get
to that under the object menu and make links.
And here we've got other things that we can pull in as well but now that it is a proxy we can do other
things like use an array modifier on it if we wanted to.
There's many many options that this now opens up for us.
And the main one of course is we can put it somewhere in our scene now I don't want the cube to link
remaining there so I'm going to hide the out of the way for the moment.
Now remember of course you can still duplicate these things and remember a duplicate will inherit all
of the properties of the thing that has been duplicated.
So for instance if we went down to our material we can't give these new balls new material so you can
see with this if you were importing all of your building pieces you'd very quickly be able to build
up your building knowing that any of the changes you make to the pieces will automatically be reflected
in all of the proxies that you've added to your scene.
But one thing to bear in mind is this naming structure can get very very convoluted quickly if you're
not careful especially if you have many many pieces at that point.
I would still name them appropriately like a wall piece and perhaps the parts of the building it said
can be handled by an individual collection rather than trying to name things very very specifically.
Now if you really want to give this skill some practice what I'd like you to do is go ahead and rebuild
your little church or building scene that you've got.
But this time importing all into a new blend file as proxies pulls over there now and give us a go
Okay everybody Welcome back.
Well let's go ahead.
I'm just going to save this crazy scene I've got here and create a new scene okay.
So with the new file opened sorry default cube you've got to go now if you're doing something repeatedly
you may benefit from going to link for instance right clicking and adding it to your quick favorites.
Then when you're in the viewport you can just go cue select link and then find what you want.
So I'm going to want archway brick 0 0 1.
I'm just going to import all of the 0 0 ones that I need.
So the floor course is placed over there where is and seen anyway.
And this would be nice.
Is going to separate them out so I can see them.
The wall link and I think a window and we're done.
So Windows 0 0 1.
I know if I import this archway for instance in any other way nothing else is combined like the archway
brick 0 0 1 is okay.
And of course it's brought in the materials as well.
Perfect.
Okay.
So now that these have all been brought in I will do a tiny bit of organization after I converted them
or made a proxy of all of these pieces.
Go ahead make proxy and again if this is something you're repeating yourself lots with you may want
to create a shortcut remember you can undo shortcuts at any time but because I'm only doing it four
times I'm not going to create one this time round relations by proxy.
Oh I miss that I always forget you need to double taps and make proxy make proxy.
Okay so it's done some where things were placement there.
But remember we can move things around Okay so I'm going to go create myself a collection here.
So I'm going to do all of the linked files first because those are the ones I cannot do anything with.
So I got all of those slates and I'm going to move them into a new collection and I'm going to cool
this collection linked.
Okay so those are out of the way and these ones I'm going to press em make a new collection and call
it building awesome.
And now it's just a matter of constructing this.
I'm gonna hide away my linked to begin with and then everything else can be put together.
So it's just a matter of having a look at what it is rotating it around 90 degrees and snapping it into
place.
This of course we did color code them deliberately so rotate Z 180 so I would know what was the inside
and what was the outside so that things snapped together really well.
That is entirely up to you how you go ahead and duplicate the pieces of your world.
It can be quite challenging to nail down an exact naming structure for but for the building and the
purposes here were absolutely fine just slapping things together as they are this would be rotated as
well.
Let's look from above and move it back in.
Okay we can move our floor piece and we've got our first little bit done.
Now we just need to do the rest and I can't remember how it was so I'm going to use Alton D.
And any changes that I make to those components I can always keep and bring back in.
I think that's the right way round.
Yep.
Now there are a couple of other windows I'm not sure where they were actually so I'm just going to make
this bit up.
So let's go here and here then duplicate again rotates Z 180 and let's move this one here.
Else d remember I'm doing a linked duplicate here more than anything else.
Which means that if I make any changes everything gets updated and then finally I need a couple more
war pieces so this duplicate this here.
We're going to have the intersecting problem that we had before as well on these four corners.
We've not solved that one yet but we'll get there in the fullness of time.
Okay.
And then we've got this we'll piece here.
So once again duplicate and move it to the appropriate locations and I think I think that's pretty much
a standard copy
Excellent.
I think that's pretty much spot on I can't remember what the other one looked like exactly.
I'm just gonna give this a floor piece outside as well.
And of course this is no different from the other one we can now fly around our scene.
And if I turn on gravity with the tab key to turn gravity.
Yep.
There we go.
I can still walk around my scene and explore it for what it is.
Yeah that looks that looks pretty good.
I'm not sure if I had the windows on the end instead.
Oh I've managed to jar.
Okay so that's lots of fun and I've rebuilt it using the proxies of course.
A quick test here that we could do is go ahead and save our work.
That's quite important.
I'm going to call this the proxy church and go in and open up our main file.
Excellent.
And yes we can see here.
That's not quite how I decided the other one.
Anyway I got the gist of it there.
So what else can we do here.
What did I want to test.
Yes.
Let's grab one of the war pieces grab the face on top and extrude by Zed by 2 just making it a tiny
bit bigger for our testing.
Save the file come back over into the proxy church and boom they've all been updated and that's the
power of this.
If we had a different church design we moved everything across boom straight away.
All of those pieces are updated with the new versions and that's exactly what we want.
Now there are a few of the things to tidy up this would be in a challenge later on like some extra corner
pieces.
We just don't have enough to make our building at the moment.
Excellent.
This is coming along really well.
I'm going to literally go pack into my church and reverse this change I can't undo it unfortunately
but what I can do is delete those top vertices and then just fill in this top face here.
And of course being true to my word I need to go back and make sure that is updated here as well.
Excellent.
And there we go.
So this really highlights how proxies themselves can add a bit of complexity or linking in general can
add a quite a bit of complexity but the benefits of it when you start getting larger scenes and you'll
perhaps got a series of other models that you want to bring into a single scene because you're not always
going to make everything from a fresh start every time that would be a very foolish endeavor.
If you can shortcut some of your work so you can get onto your next project quicker as a great thing
to do.
I'm gonna leave this with you now and I'll see you all in the next lecture.